feat(55/STATUS-1TO1-CHAT): include group chat (#591)
vacp2p/rfc: content/docs/rfcs/55/README.md

This specification describes how the Status 1-to-1 chat protocol is implemented on top of the Waku v2 protocol. 
This protocol can be used to send messages to a single recipient.

# Terminology

- **Participant**: A participant is a user that is able to send and receive messages.
- **1-to-1 chat**: A chat between two participants.
- **Public chat**: A chat where any participant can join and read messages.
- **Private chat**: A chat where only invited participants can join and read messages.

> - **Group chat**: A chat where multiple participants can join and read messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Group chat**: A chat where multiple select participants can join and read messages.
```

> - **Admin**: A participant that is able to add/remove participants from a group chat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Group admin**: A participant that is able to add/remove participants from a group chat.
```

2. [35/WAKU2-NOISE](/spec/35/), the session management is described in [37/WAKU2-NOISE-SESSIONS](/spec/37/)

## Negotiation of a 1:1 chat amongst multiple participants (group chat)

A small, private group chat can be constructed by having multiple participants negotiate a 1:1 chat amongst each other.
Each participant MUST maintain a session with all other participants in the group chat.
This allows for a group chat to be created with a small number of participants.

However, this method does not scale as the number of participants increases, for the following reasons -
1. The number of messages sent over the network increases with the number of participants.
2. Handling the X3DH key exchange for each participant is computationally expensive.

> The above issues are addressed in [56/STATUS-COMMUNITIES](/spec/56/).

Reviewer: This sounds like communities are better in any case.
Maybe add: (with other trade-offs).

Author: Addressed in 63639a0

### Flow

The following flow describes how a group chat is created and maintained.

#### Membership Update Flow

> Each participant in the group chat MUST send membership updates in the following wire format:

Reviewer: when?
I'd put the statement "MUST send" after it has been explained when updates have to be sent.
Here, i'd simply say "membership updates have the following wire format".
(It might make sense to move this wirespec after more context has been provided.)

Author: Addressed in 976add8
We should have a better way to define wirespecs, imo

Reviewer: Besides proto buffs? 
There was the discussion to introduce executable specs.
Imo, protobuffs + text description should not be replaced by that. The executable spec should be an addition.
We can discuss this in the RFC channel :).

```protobuf
message MembershipUpdateMessage {
  // The chat id of the private group chat
  // derived in the following way:
  // chat_id = hex(chat_creator_public_key) + "-" + random_uuid
  // This chat_id MUST be validated by all participants
  string chat_id = 1;
  // A list of events for this group chat, first 65 bytes are the signature, then is a 
  // protobuf encoded MembershipUpdateEvent

>   repeated bytes events = 2;

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be of type `MembershipUpdateEvent`?

Author: No, since the first element is the signature, and all other elements after are encoded MembershipUpdateEvents. The implementation should probably change to include the signature in the MembershipUpdateMessage, and use repeated MembershipUpdateEvent as the type here, as you mentioned

Reviewer: This should be mentioned explicitly.

Even better would be to  include the signature as a separatet field in `MembershipUpdateMessage` within this spec, and make the events field of type `MembershipUpdateEvent`. @felicio could we do that?

Reviewer: Let's do this in a follow up issue/PR.
(The current raw RFC refelects the implemenation status.)

Reviewer: Please add this explicity though:

>  the first element is the signature, and all other elements after are encoded MembershipUpdateEvents.

  // An optional chat message
  ChatMessage message = 3;
}
```

where `MembershipUpdateEvent` is defined as follows:

```protobuf
message MembershipUpdateEvent {
  // Lamport timestamp of the event
  uint64 clock = 1;
  // Optional list of public keys of the targets of the action
  repeated string members = 2;
  // Name of the chat for the CHAT_CREATED/NAME_CHANGED event types
  string name = 3;
  // The type of the event
  EventType type = 4;

  enum EventType {
    UNKNOWN = 0;
    CHAT_CREATED = 1; // See [CHAT_CREATED](#chat-created)
    NAME_CHANGED = 2; // See [NAME_CHANGED](#name-changed)
    MEMBERS_ADDED = 3; // See [MEMBERS_ADDED](#members-added)
    MEMBER_JOINED = 4; // See [MEMBER_JOINED](#member-joined)
    MEMBER_REMOVED = 5; // See [MEMBER_REMOVED](#member-removed)
    ADMINS_ADDED = 6; // See [ADMINS_ADDED](#admins-added)
    ADMIN_REMOVED = 7; // See [ADMIN_REMOVED](#admin-removed)
  }
}
```

##### Chat Created

> This is the first event that MUST be sent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a group chat, this is the first event that MUST be sent. 
```

Any event with a clock value lower than this MUST be discarded. 
Upon receiving this event a client MUST validate the `chat_id` provided with the update and create a chat with identified by `chat_id`.

> By default, the creator of the group chat is the only admin of the chat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the creator of the group chat is the only group admin.
```

##### Name Changed

> Admins MUST use a `NAME_CHANGED` event to change the name of the group chat. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the name of the group chat, group admins MUST use a `NAME_CHANGED` event.
```

Making it clearer  that only if you wish to change the name you MUST send...

Upon receiving this event a client MUST validate the `chat_id` provided with the updates and MUST ensure the author of the event is an admin of the chat, otherwise the event MUST be ignored. 
If the event is valid the chat name SHOULD be changed according to the provided message.

##### Members Added

> Admins MUST use a `MEMBERS_ADDED` event to add members to the chat. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add members to the chat, group admins MUST use a `MEMBERS_ADDED` event. 
```

Same as above. Otherwise it sounds like admins MUST add users; but they are free to not add users at all.

Upon receiving this event a participant MUST validate the `chat_id` provided with the updates and MUST ensure the author of the event is an admin of the chat, otherwise the event MUST be ignored. 
If the event is valid, a participant MUST update the list of members of the chat who have not joined, adding the members received. 

##### Member Joined

> New participants MUST use a `MEMBER_JOINED` event to signal that they want to start receiving messages from this chat. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To signal the intent to start receiving messages from a given chat, new participants MUST use a `MEMBER_JOINED` event.
```

same as above

Upon receiving this event a participant MUST validate the `chat_id` provided with the updates. 
If the event is valid a participant MUST add the new participant to the list of participants stored locally. 
Any message sent to the group chat MUST now include the new participant.

##### Member Removed

There are two ways in which a member MAY be removed from a group chat:
- A member MAY leave the chat by sending a `MEMBER_REMOVED` event, with the `members` field containing their own public key.
- An admin MAY remove a member by sending a `MEMBER_REMOVED` event, with the `members` field containing the public key of the member to be removed.

Each participant MUST validate the `chat_id` provided with the updates and MUST ensure the author of the event is an admin of the chat, otherwise the event MUST be ignored.
If the event is valid, a participant MUST update the local list of members accordingly.

##### Admins Added

> Admins MUST use an `ADMINS_ADDED` event to promote participants to admin. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To promote participants to group admin, group admins MUST use an `ADMINS_ADDED` event.
```

Upon receiving this event, a participant MUST validate the `chat_id` provided with the updates, MUST ensure the author of the event is an admin of the chat, otherwise the event MUST be ignored. 
If the event is valid, a participant MUST update the list of admins of the chat accordingly.

##### Admin Removed

> Admins MUST not be able to remove other admins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Admins MUST NOT be able to remove other admins.
```
